MRTG-LOGFILE(1)                mrtg               MRTG-LOGFILE(1)



NNAAMMEE
       mrtg-logfile - description of the mrtg-2 logfile format

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       This document provides a description of the contents of
       the mrtg-2 logfile.

OOVVEERRVVIIEEWW
       The logfile consists of two main sections.

       The first Line
           It stores the traffic counters from the most recent
           run of mrtg.

       The rest of the File
           Stores past traffic rate averates and maxima at incre-
           assing intervals.

       The first number on each line is a unix time stamp. It
       represents the number of seconds since 1970.

DDEETTAAIILLSS
       TThhee ffiirrsstt LLiinnee

       The first line has 3 numbers which are:

       A (1st column)
           A timestamp of when MRTG last ran for this interface.
           The timestamp is the number of non-skip seconds passed
           since the standard UNIX "epoch" of midnight on 1st of
           January 1970 GMT.

       B (2nd column)
           The "incoming bytes counter" value.

       C (3rd column)
           The "outgoing bytes counter" value.

       TThhee rreesstt ooff tthhee FFiillee

       The second and remaining lines of the file contains 5 num-
       bers which are:

       A (1st column)
           The Unix timestamp for the point in time the data on
           this line is relevant.  Note that the interval between
           timestamps increases as you prograss through the file.
           At first it is 5 minutes and at the end it is one day
           between two lines.

           This timestamp may be converted in OpenOffice Calc or
           MS Excel by using the following formula

            =(x+y)/86400+DATE(1970;1;1)

           (instead of ";" it may be that you have to use ","
           this depends on the context and your locale settings)

           you can also ask perl to help by typing

            perl -e 'print scalar localtime(x),"\n"'

           xx is the unix timestamp and yy is the offset in seconds
           from UTC. (Perl knows yy).

       B (2nd column)
           The average incoming transfer rate in bytes per sec-
           ond. This is valid for the time between the A value of
           the current line and the A value of the previous line.

       C (3rd column)
           The average outgoing transfer rate in bytes per second
           since the previous measurement.

       D (4th column)
           The maximum incoming transfer rate in bytes per second
           for the current interval. This is calculated from all
           the updates which have occured in the current inter-
           val. If the current interval is 1 hour, and updates
           have occured every 5 minutes, it will be the biggest 5
           minute transfer rate seen during the hour.

       E (5th column)
           The maximum outgoing transfer rate in bytes per second
           for the current interval.

AAUUTTHHOORR
       Butch Kemper <kemper@bihs.net> and Tobias Oetiker
       <tobi.ch>



2.14.2                      2006-05-04            MRTG-LOGFILE(1)
